An Ensemble of Bayesian Neural Networks for Exoplanetary Atmospheric
  Retrieval
  Machine learning is now used in many areas of astrophysics, from detecting
exoplanets in Kepler transit signals to removing telescope systematics. Recent
work demonstrated the potential of using machine learning algorithms for
atmospheric retrieval by implementing a random forest to perform retrievals in
seconds that are consistent with the traditional, computationally-expensive
nested-sampling retrieval method. We expand upon their approach by presenting a
new machine learning model, \texttt{plan-net}, based on an ensemble of Bayesian
neural networks that yields more accurate inferences than the random forest for
the same data set of synthetic transmission spectra. We demonstrate that an
ensemble provides greater accuracy and more robust uncertainties than a single
model. In addition to being the first to use Bayesian neural networks for
atmospheric retrieval, we also introduce a new loss function for Bayesian
neural networks that learns correlations between the model outputs.
Importantly, we show that designing machine learning models to explicitly
incorporate domain-specific knowledge both improves performance and provides
additional insight by inferring the covariance of the retrieved atmospheric
parameters. We apply \texttt{plan-net} to the Hubble Space Telescope Wide Field
Camera 3 transmission spectrum for WASP-12b and retrieve an isothermal
temperature and water abundance consistent with the literature. We highlight
that our method is flexible and can be expanded to higher-resolution spectra
and a larger number of atmospheric parameters.
