Combining Physically-Based Modeling and Deep Learning for Fusing GRACE
  Satellite Data: Can We Learn from Mismatch?
  Global hydrological and land surface models are increasingly used for
tracking terrestrial total water storage (TWS) dynamics, but the utility of
existing models is hampered by conceptual and/or data uncertainties related to
various underrepresented and unrepresented processes, such as groundwater
storage. The gravity recovery and climate experiment (GRACE) satellite mission
provided a valuable independent data source for tracking TWS at regional and
continental scales. Strong interests exist in fusing GRACE data into global
hydrological models to improve their predictive performance. Here we develop
and apply deep convolutional neural network (CNN) models to learn the
spatiotemporal patterns of mismatch between TWS anomalies (TWSA) derived from
GRACE and those simulated by NOAH, a widely used land surface model. Once
trained, our CNN models can be used to correct the NOAH simulated TWSA without
requiring GRACE data, potentially filling the data gap between GRACE and its
follow-on mission, GRACE-FO. Our methodology is demonstrated over India, which
has experienced significant groundwater depletion in recent decades that is
nevertheless not being captured by the NOAH model. Results show that the CNN
models significantly improve the match with GRACE TWSA, achieving a
country-average correlation coefficient of 0.94 and Nash-Sutcliff efficient of
0.87, or 14\% and 52\% improvement respectively over the original NOAH TWSA. At
the local scale, the learned mismatch pattern correlates well with the observed
in situ groundwater storage anomaly data for most parts of India, suggesting
that deep learning models effectively compensate for the missing groundwater
component in NOAH for this study region.
