Correction of Electron Back-scattered Diffraction datasets using an
  evolutionary algorithm
  In materials science and particularly electron microscopy, Electron
Back-scatter Diffraction (EBSD) is a common and powerful mapping technique for
collecting local crystallographic data at the sub-micron scale. The quality of
the reconstruction of the maps is critical to study the spatial distribution of
phases and crystallographic orientation relationships between phases, a key
interest in materials science. However, EBSD data is known to suffer from
distortions that arise from several instrument and detector artifacts. In this
paper, we present an unsupervised method that corrects those distortions, and
enables or enhances phase differentiation in EBSD data. The method uses a
segmented electron image of the phases of interest (laths, precipitates, voids,
inclusions) gathered using detectors that generate less distorted data, of the
same area than the EBSD map, and then searches for the best transformation to
correct the distortions of the initial EBSD data. To do so, the Covariance
Matrix Adaptation Evolution Strategy (CMA-ES) is implemented to distort the
EBSD until it matches the reference electron image. Fast and versatile, this
method does not require any human annotation and can be applied to large
datasets and wide areas, where the distortions are important. Besides, this
method requires very little assumption concerning the shape of the distortion
function. Some application examples in multiphase materials with feature sizes
down to 1 $\mu$m are presented, including a Titanium alloy and a Nickel-base
superalloy.
