Machine learning based hyperspectral image analysis: A survey
  Hyperspectral sensors enable the study of the chemical properties of scene
materials remotely for the purpose of identification, detection, and chemical
composition analysis of objects in the environment. Hence, hyperspectral images
captured from earth observing satellites and aircraft have been increasingly
important in agriculture, environmental monitoring, urban planning, mining, and
defense. Machine learning algorithms due to their outstanding predictive power
have become a key tool for modern hyperspectral image analysis. Therefore, a
solid understanding of machine learning techniques have become essential for
remote sensing researchers and practitioners. This paper reviews and compares
recent machine learning-based hyperspectral image analysis methods published in
literature. We organize the methods by the image analysis task and by the type
of machine learning algorithm, and present a two-way mapping between the image
analysis tasks and the types of machine learning algorithms that can be applied
to them. The paper is comprehensive in coverage of both hyperspectral image
analysis tasks and machine learning algorithms. The image analysis tasks
considered are land cover classification, target detection, unmixing, and
physical parameter estimation. The machine learning algorithms covered are
Gaussian models, linear regression, logistic regression, support vector
machines, Gaussian mixture model, latent linear models, sparse linear models,
Gaussian mixture models, ensemble learning, directed graphical models,
undirected graphical models, clustering, Gaussian processes, Dirichlet
processes, and deep learning. We also discuss the open challenges in the field
of hyperspectral image analysis and explore possible future directions.
