Non-exchangeable random partition models for microclustering
  Many popular random partition models, such as the Chinese restaurant process
and its two-parameter extension, fall in the class of exchangeable random
partitions, and have found wide applicability in model-based clustering,
population genetics, ecology or network analysis. While the exchangeability
assumption is sensible in many cases, it has some strong implications. In
particular, Kingman's representation theorem implies that the size of the
clusters necessarily grows linearly with the sample size; this feature may be
undesirable for some applications, as recently pointed out by Miller et al.
(2015). We present here a flexible class of non-exchangeable random partition
models which are able to generate partitions whose cluster sizes grow
sublinearly with the sample size, and where the growth rate is controlled by
one parameter. Along with this result, we provide the asymptotic behaviour of
the number of clusters of a given size, and show that the model can exhibit a
power-law behavior, controlled by another parameter. The construction is based
on completely random measures and a Poisson embedding of the random partition,
and inference is performed using a Sequential Monte Carlo algorithm.
Additionally, we show how the model can also be directly used to generate
sparse multigraphs with power-law degree distributions and degree sequences
with sublinear growth. Finally, experiments on real datasets emphasize the
usefulness of the approach compared to a two-parameter Chinese restaurant
process.
