Parametric generation of conditional geological realizations using
  generative neural networks
  Deep learning techniques are increasingly being considered for geological
applications where -- much like in computer vision -- the challenges are
characterized by high-dimensional spatial data dominated by multipoint
statistics. In particular, a novel technique called generative adversarial
networks has been recently studied for geological parametrization and
synthesis, obtaining very impressive results that are at least qualitatively
competitive with previous methods. The method obtains a neural network
parametrization of the geology -- so-called a generator -- that is capable of
reproducing very complex geological patterns with dimensionality reduction of
several orders of magnitude. Subsequent works have addressed the conditioning
task, i.e. using the generator to generate realizations honoring spatial
observations (hard data). The current approaches, however, do not provide a
parametrization of the conditional generation process. In this work, we propose
a method to obtain a parametrization for direct generation of conditional
realizations. The main idea is to simply extend the existing generator network
by stacking a second inference network that learns to perform the conditioning.
This inference network is a neural network trained to sample a posterior
distribution derived using a Bayesian formulation of the conditioning task. The
resulting extended neural network thus provides the conditional
parametrization. Our method is assessed on a benchmark image of binary
channelized subsurface, obtaining very promising results for a wide variety of
conditioning configurations.
