Remote Sensing Image Classification with Large Scale Gaussian Processes
  Current remote sensing image classification problems have to deal with an
unprecedented amount of heterogeneous and complex data sources. Upcoming
missions will soon provide large data streams that will make land cover/use
classification difficult. Machine learning classifiers can help at this, and
many methods are currently available. A popular kernel classifier is the
Gaussian process classifier (GPC), since it approaches the classification
problem with a solid probabilistic treatment, thus yielding confidence
intervals for the predictions as well as very competitive results to
state-of-the-art neural networks and support vector machines. However, its
computational cost is prohibitive for large scale applications, and constitutes
the main obstacle precluding wide adoption. This paper tackles this problem by
introducing two novel efficient methodologies for Gaussian Process (GP)
classification. We first include the standard random Fourier features
approximation into GPC, which largely decreases its computational cost and
permits large scale remote sensing image classification. In addition, we
propose a model which avoids randomly sampling a number of Fourier frequencies,
and alternatively learns the optimal ones within a variational Bayes approach.
The performance of the proposed methods is illustrated in complex problems of
cloud detection from multispectral imagery and infrared sounding data.
Excellent empirical results support the proposal in both computational cost and
accuracy.
