Structure Label Prediction Using Similarity-Based Retrieval and
  Weakly-Supervised Label Mapping
  Recently, there has been significant interest in various supervised machine
learning techniques that can help reduce the time and effort consumed by manual
interpretation workflows. However, most successful supervised machine learning
algorithms require huge amounts of annotated training data. Obtaining these
labels for large seismic volumes is a very time-consuming and laborious task.
We address this problem by presenting a weakly-supervised approach for
predicting the labels of various seismic structures. By having an interpreter
select a very small number of exemplar images for every class of subsurface
structures, we use a novel similarity-based retrieval technique to extract
thousands of images that contain similar subsurface structures from the seismic
volume. By assuming that similar images belong to the same class, we obtain
thousands of image-level labels for these images; we validate this assumption
in our results section. We then introduce a novel weakly-supervised algorithm
for mapping these rough image-level labels into more accurate pixel-level
labels that localize the different subsurface structures within the image. This
approach dramatically simplifies the process of obtaining labeled data for
training supervised machine learning algorithms on seismic interpretation
tasks. Using our method we generate thousands of automatically-labeled images
from the Netherlands Offshore F3 block with reasonably accurate pixel-level
labels. We believe this work will allow for more advances in machine
learning-enabled seismic interpretation.
