Disaggregation of Remotely Sensed Soil Moisture in Heterogeneous
  Landscapes using Holistic Structure based Models
  In this study, a novel machine learning algorithm is presented for
disaggregation of satellite soil moisture (SM) based on self-regularized
regressive models (SRRM) using high-resolution correlated information from
auxiliary sources. It includes regularized clustering that assigns soft
memberships to each pixel at fine-scale followed by a kernel regression that
computes the value of the desired variable at all pixels. Coarse-scale remotely
sensed SM were disaggregated from 10km to 1km using land cover, precipitation,
land surface temperature, leaf area index, and in-situ observations of SM. This
algorithm was evaluated using multi-scale synthetic observations in NC Florida
for heterogeneous agricultural land covers. It was found that the root mean
square error (RMSE) for 96% of the pixels was less than 0.02 $m^3/m^3$. The
clusters generated represented the data well and reduced the RMSE by upto 40%
during periods of high heterogeneity in land-cover and meteorological
conditions. The Kullback Leibler divergence (KLD) between the true SM and the
disaggregated estimates is close to 0, for both vegetated and baresoil
landcovers. The disaggregated estimates were compared to those generated by the
Principle of Relevant Information (PRI) method. The RMSE for the PRI
disaggregated estimates is higher than the RMSE for the SRRM on each day of the
season. The KLD of the disaggregated estimates generated by the SRRM is at
least four orders of magnitude lower than those for the PRI disaggregated
estimates, while the computational time needed was reduced by three times. The
results indicate that the SRRM can be used for disaggregating SM with complex
non-linear correlations on a grid with high accuracy.
