Penobscot Dataset: Fostering Machine Learning Development for Seismic
  Interpretation
  We have seen in the past years the flourishing of machine and deep learning
algorithms in several applications such as image classification and
segmentation, object detection and recognition, among many others. This was
only possible, in part, because datasets like ImageNet -- with +14 million
labeled images -- were created and made publicly available, providing
researches with a common ground to compare their advances and extend the
state-of-the-art. Although we have seen an increasing interest in machine
learning in geosciences as well, we will only be able to achieve a significant
impact in our community if we collaborate to build such a common basis. This is
even more difficult when it comes to the Oil&Gas industry, in which
confidentiality and commercial interests often hinder the sharing of datasets
with others. In this letter, we present the Penobscot interpretation dataset,
our contribution to the development of machine learning in geosciences, more
specifically in seismic interpretation. The Penobscot 3D seismic dataset was
acquired in the Scotian shelf, offshore Nova Scotia, Canada. The data is
publicly available and comprises pre- and pos-stack data, 5 horizons and well
logs of 2 wells. However, for the dataset to be of practical use for our tasks,
we had to reinterpret the seismic, generating 7 horizons separating different
seismic facies intervals. The interpreted horizons were used to generated
+100,000 labeled images for inlines and crosslines. To demonstrate the utility
of our dataset, results of two experiments are presented.
